# 20230903

Today I focused on creating ansible content. Turns out I need to bootstrap my systems to support ansible orchestration
so I created a `bootstrap` role that would make sure `sudo` is installed and configured.

Unfortunately the starship program isn't installable using `package`. Therefore I'll create a new role for it since it's
not needed on every system, just the ones I interact with directly.

I think I've also settled on trying fedora coreos, it'll be a fun challenge and I can contribute back if I want.

It starts with following <https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fedora-coreos/provisioning-raspberry-pi4/>, specifically
making sure the eeprom is updated.

Turns out using fedora coreos is kind of involved:

1. Create a `config.ign` file per <https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fedora-coreos/getting-started/>. This file gets
   used by ignition to control configuration of the system.
2. Follow the steps on <https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fedora-coreos/provisioning-raspberry-pi4/> to set up the
   disk for the raspberry pi 4.
3. ???
4. Profit

One nice thing about the Fedora CoreOS is that it includes automatic system patching via zincati per
<https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fedora-coreos/auto-updates/>. It just needs to be wired into kubernetes which is
being tracked at <https://github.com/rancher/system-upgrade-controller/issues/87> which was linked from
<https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-tracker/issues/241#issuecomment-672772771>. Unfortunately all of the links are
fairly dated at this point so I am planning to take a more disconnected approach:

* fleetlock (which was updated ~18 months ago) for coordinating updates at the OS layer
* system-upgrade-controller for coordinating updates at the kubernetes host layer
* helm for coordinating rollouts at the application layer
* renovate for determining updates at applicable layers

Maybe I can use renovate to update ansible modules alongside helm patching.

I still need to figure out how I want to distribute services. Some services can be hosted in kubernetes but some
services are better on a system. For example, home assistant works better on a system because it has easy access to
devices like usb devices.

I think I'll run haos on my Intel SBC since it isn't part of the sbc enclosure. I can also attach USB devices to it to
get zigbee and matter support. This means I need to reinstall the OS...again.

And I've decided I need to move the dotfiles tasks out to a new role. For another time.

## Services

* [ ] Home Assistant
* [ ] Task management, something like kanboard, or maybe gitea
* [ ] Photoprism because it has AI-powered facial detection
* [ ] grafana for graphing things
* [ ] loki for log aggregation
* [ ] unifi for AP management
* [ ] wireguard for secure remote access

## Desired outcomes

This section keeps track of what I want to do with my homelab:

* [ ] Automatic camera backup from phones with web frontend
* [ ] HVAC usage tracking (will be tough)
* [ ] Malicious ad protection
* [ ] Web content filtering via DNS filtering
* [ ] web content aggregation like with tinytinyrss or similar
* [ ] irc proxy
* [ ] home inventory management
* [ ] home project management

## Tasks/topics

* [ ] Note posting
* [x] Ansible bootstrapping
* [ ] Ansible AWX integration
* [ ] k3s bootstrapping
* [ ] gitops approach
* [ ] configuration encryption
