# Introduction

This blog will capture my journey to set up my homelab.

I've been running services at home for over 15 years but have never been satisfied with the configuration. I have had to
spend too much time tinkering or updating or patching. So I've decided that since I finally got another Raspberry PI 4,
I will take this opportunity to recreate my home networking services.

My primary goal will be to automate and orchestrate as much of the process as possible so that my components are kept
patched and updated and monitored so that I don't have to tinker with it a lot.

Most recently, my kubernetes services stopped working because the metallb-speaker started having a ImagePullBackOff.
I assume it was because I was running v0.9.3 which is presumably no longer being distributed. It took me several hours
to upgrade to v0.13, mostly because I tried using the operator deployment and couldn't figure it out.

Anyway, new raspberry PI means opportunity to do something different so I'll try to capture my thinking process as I go
along.

My ultimate goal is to host some services at home:

* Home Assistant for home automation stuff
* Some kind of monitoring solution
* Some kind of log aggregation solution
* Photo hosting services
* Grocy for home inventory tracking
* File backup capability for pictures and videos

I have chosen to run my services on single board computers like RaspberryPi computers so that they use less energy
overall.

## Decision Points

I have to decide lots of things in this process:

* Linux Distribution: Probably Debian because it seems to have better support for the raspberry pi
* Kubernetes Distribution: k3s because I have multiple nodes
* Ingress Controller: Not sure yet. Will document when I get there.
* Load Balancer: Probably MetalLB because layer 2 advertisements are easier than BGP.
* OS Orchestration: Undoubtedly ansible because it's what I've been using for 10 years.
* Kubernetes Orchestration: Probably flux instead of argocd because it's lighter weight.
* OS Patching: TBD
* Kubernetes patching: TBD, maybe renovate? Or dependabot because I'm on github?

## Implementation Drivers

One of the key requirements I want to implement is to not store any information about where my resources are deployed on
the internet. Therefore I'll have to find how to obfuscate configmaps, hooray.

My new raspberry pi arrives this week, so hopefully I can get started on it.
