# 20230902

I've been hesitant to do much work on my homelab because I've been stalling trying to figure out how I want to structure
everything.

I find that I spend a lot of time creating structure/framework to make things easier for me so there's a lot of stalling
before finally deciding to just do something.

Currently I've been wondering how I wanted to structure my ansible code and inventory. I think I've finally settled on:

* use ansible-vault to encrypt the inventory
* store the ansible playbooks and roles in the root of the homelab repository
* re-evaluate once I add more stuff

Now that I've decided on how to structure my ansible code I can start working on it. I've decided that I need to keep
track of things that I need to work on.

I could store them as issues in the repository but instead I have decided to track them in these documents so that they
are in my face and portable across environments.

## Ansible bootstrapping

Getting started with ansible, I'll encrypt my inventory using ansible vault: `ansible-vault encrypt --vault-id
inventory@prompt inventory.yml`. It's weird syntax to use `inventory@prompt` but that's how you get it to ask you for
the password for the vault id `inventory`. I arbitrarily chose to use the `inventory` vault-id so I could get practice
with it, there's no real rhyme or reason to it. I generated the vault password with bitwarden and stored it in
bitwarden. Perhaps I'll find a way to supply the password with bitwarden.

Using `ansible-vault edit inventory.yml` and I learned my editor is currently set to `nano`, whoops. Updating my
dotfiles...

## Linux Distribution

Since my last note, I learned that the raspberry pi 3 and raspberry pi 4 are support in Fedora since release 37 per
<https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/raspberry-pi/>. Fedora is appealing to me because I could play with the
Fedora coreos spin optimized for containers and/or selinux. One nice thing about coreos is that it is automatically
updating and minimal. Though based on <https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fedora-coreos/provisioning-raspberry-pi4/>
it seems a little daunting...but maybe it won't be too bad?

I purchased a 7" monitor so that I could easily work with the SBCs I have without having to try to drive my larger
monitors. So maybe I'll try FCOS on the raspberry pi SBCs.

## Tasks/topics

* [ ] Note posting
* [ ] Ansible bootstrapping
* [ ] Ansible AWX integration
* [ ] k3s bootstrapping
* [ ] gitops approach
* [ ] configuration encryption
