# 20231129

I successfully brought authentik online yesterday and was able to create users. My next immediate step was to realize I
needed to add applications that can use authentik as the SSO provider.

Because I don't like to do things manually, I decided to see if authentik supports any sort of configuration as code and
it turns out it does in the form of blueprints or terraform provider.

Since I have the tf-controller service running, I think I'll use the terraform approach for managing the configuration
of the applications in authentik. It's even referenced in the authentik documents at https://goauthentik.io/integrations/services/grafana/

Based on what I can gleam from <https://registry.terraform.io/providers/goauthentik/authentik/latest/docs>, I need to
have some token identifier for terraform to manage authentik.

<https://github.com/goauthentik/terraform-provider-authentik#testing> talks about passing in a `AUTHENTIK_TOKEN`
parameter for development but that doesn't appear to be sustainable because it seems like it's used for the Outposts
feature for authentik.

Instead I think I will need to establish an authentik application representing terraform and then configure authentik
using terraform.

So I think my plan will be:

* Create an authentik blueprint for establishing a terraform application
* Create a terraform project for managing the authentik configuration

## Authentik Terraform

The authentik terraform project should be responsible for configuring authentik for supporting the SSO applications.

That means it will need to handle the following integration points:

* per application client id and client secret
  * These must be stored in bitwarden so that they can be retrieved by the external secrets provider for the client
    applications
* applications in authentik
* users?

## Authentik
Thinking about my SSO for my homelab, I think that I want to support third party providers like google, github, or
apple. This way my family members don't have to remember a new username/password for logging in.

I will take the "secure" approach of having an offline shared admin account with credentials securely stored and my
account will be unprivileged just like everyone else in authentik.

I will grant my account administrative privileges using configuration as code to applications so that it's easier to
document how to manage the permissions.

I found that I could use BOOTSTRAP_PASSWORD and BOOTSTRAP_TOKEN to create a password and token for the akadmin default
admin so I'm using that instead of a blueprint to enable terraform based management.
