# 20230905

Today I realized that by integrating k3s in the Fedora CoreOS configuration I have to decide if I want to include
multi-master in my deployment. I think that I do so that I can reboot any of the nodes without impacting the overall
cluster too much.

So, based on the k3s documentation, I have to decide between an external datastore or an internal datastore. I found [an
ansible role][1] for installing k3s using an internal datastore.

Then, based on using multiple control nodes, I need to update the coreos configuration.

Ok, went down several rabbit holes and considered:

* etcd outside of k3s use coreos
* cilium vs calico vs canal vs flannel (settled on cilium because eBPF)
* ipv6 support
  * required me learning about ULA for IPv6
  * I plan to use ULA for the cluster IPs and then an GUA for exposing services

Since it's multiple servers I'll use `keepalived` to share an IP between the nodes per [homeautomation.wiki][2]

Turns out `keepalived` wasn't straightforward so I decided not to do it. Instead I'll figure something out with DNS.

But first, I figured out what was wrong with my ipv6 on my router. Turns out I needed to update the firewall to permit
the DHCPv6 response traffic to come from a new ip (2001:dead:beef::10). Probably my ISP.

I now have an IPv6 delegated prefix and can follow along with <https://yolops.net/k8s-dualstack-cilium.html>.

I keep seeing `cafe` in the kubernetes ipv6 prefixes, I wonder what that is all about. Anyway, from the link above,
let's plan out the IPv6 prefixes. At first I only got a `/64` prefix but I figured out how to request a `/60` prefix.

    2601:dead:beef:340::/60: main /60 prefix assigned by my ISP
        2601:dead:beef:340::/64: my main LAN subnet
        2601:dead:beef:342::/64: another routed subnet dedicated to K8s internal use
          2601:dead:beef:342:cafe:0::/96: subnet for pods
          2601:dead:beef:342:cafe:1::/96: segmented
            2601:dead:beef:342:cafe:1::/112: subnet for services

And with that, I think I have everything in place to provision my first k3s control node.

## IPv6 Issues

The problem I had with my IPv6 prefix delegation was:

1. firewall was blocking DHCPv6 responses
2. DHCP client id shouldn't be a number, whoops
3. the main tab should request a prefix size

## Services

* [ ] Home Assistant
* [ ] Task management, something like kanboard, or maybe gitea
* [ ] Photoprism because it has AI-powered facial detection
* [ ] grafana for graphing things
* [ ] loki for log aggregation
* [ ] unifi for AP management
* [ ] wireguard for secure remote access

## Desired outcomes

This section keeps track of what I want to do with my homelab:

* [ ] Automatic camera backup from phones with web frontend
* [ ] HVAC usage tracking (will be tough)
* [ ] Malicious ad protection
* [ ] Web content filtering via DNS filtering
* [ ] web content aggregation like with tinytinyrss or similar
* [ ] irc proxy<
* [ ] home inventory management
* [ ] home project management

## Tasks/topics

* [ ] Note posting
* [x] Ansible bootstrapping
* [ ] Ansible AWX integration?
* [x] k3s bootstrapping
* [ ] gitops approach
* [ ] configuration encryption

## Links

[1]: https://github.com/k3s-io/k3s-ansible/pull/97/files
[2]: https://homeautomation.wiki/kubernetes-homelab-with-k3s-and-raspberry-pi-4/
