# 20231009

Again I'm realizing there's an order of dependencies.

I've decided to use authentik instead of keycloak or authelia because:

* authentik seems more mature than authelia
* keycloak is way too complicated

Unfortunately, authentik requires a postgresql database to store data. So now I need to set up a postgresql databas.

I could either use the postgresql database for the cluster with a new "partition" in it or I could set up a cluster
hosted postgresql instance.

Which leads me to think about backing up different resources. I have already deleted several PVCs and had to reconfigure
different applications which is a pain in the behind with just 2. I'm dreading having to restore multiple.

But now I have a chicken and egg problem of wanting to backup and restore things that reside on my cluster to minio
running on my cluster. [restic](https://restic.net/) appears to be the commonly kubernetes aware backup solution and it
can send to s3 which can be minio.

I'm trying to decide if I configure minio on my NAS or run it in my cluster. I think I'll leave it on my cluster with
files being stored on the nas.

I think I will set up a cluster-pg deployment so that I can dynamically create databases.

With the cluster-pg deployment I want to use external-secrets so I set up a bitwarden account that can be used to store
the secrets. I don't want to have to manually generate every secret I need so I'm going to try using the external
secrets generator approach, fingers crossed.

Actually, after reviewing what others are doing around using 1password, it appears that a different approach is to use
terraform to generate the resources in the password manager and use external-secrets to retrieve them. Specifically
using the tf-controller to run terraform within the cluster and create resources that are managed by terraform. This is
adding up to be quite a rube-goldberg machine.

So, I think that means I need to:

* create a tf-controller deployment that
* calls terraform to manage bitwarden resources. Probably using
<https://github.com/maxlaverse/terraform-provider-bitwarden> as the terraform provider since it is currently maintained.

I had the thought I could use ansible to manage the bitwarden entries but it appears that isn't the case because there's
no module for doing that.

So today my goal is to get external-secrets with bitwarden working which is going to require:

* personal containers repository for custom containers. Based off of <https://github.com/onedr0p/containers>
* github actions that build and deploy the custom containers
* tf-controller deployed with custom container

Today I succeeded in setting up [containers](https://github.com/jokajak/containers) with automatic building of releases.
Later I'll try to integrate a tf-controller.

Once I have the tf-controller I'll set up external-secrets then I'll set up a cluster-pg.

Then I'll set up authentik and minio and restic.

Turns out I need to set up external-secrets first, then tf-controller. I hope.
