# 20230914

Today I got my synology nas set up. I'm a little worried I made a poor choice getting a synology nas instead of setting
up something based on unraid but I'm going to give a try because I want to enable others in my home to do things.

So far I have set up a SHR-1 volume on the pair of HDDs from <serverpartdeals.com> and installed 32 GB of crucial ram in
the synology. It's currently formatting and encrypting the volume which will take 18 hours.

I followed instructions from <https://discourse.pi-hole.net/t/alternative-synology-installation-method/5454?u=diginc>
and <https://www.wundertech.net/how-to-setup-pi-hole-on-a-synology-nas-two-methods/> to set up pihole on the synology. I
plan to add a NVME to the Synology as another storage pool and will use <https://github.com/007revad/Synology_HDD_db> to
make it usable as a storage pool.

I'm planning on storing my photos on the synology so I'm going to try using the Synology Photos instead of photoprism.

Now that I have the synology online, I have to make decisions about where files will be stored which means I have to
think about the approach.

## Synology

So, my synology has 2 NAS HDDs and 1 NVME. Therefore I have decided to set up two storage volumes, one on the HDDs and
one on the NVME. The NVME storage volume will be used to provide physical volumes for my kubernetes cluster.

I set up the Hyper Backup software to backup the NVME to the HDDs.

I also installed syncthing on the synology so that I can easily synchronize files to it. I still need to configure it
and the clients.

I installed Synology Photos and now I need to figure out how to get files onto it. For now I'll start by just scp'ing
files from my old drive.

## pihole

I decided to use Pi-Hole instead of Adguard because I like the UI better than adguard (oddly).

I configured it with two lists:

* Oisd.nl
* oisd.nl - NSFW

I set the upstream DNS servers to be quad9

I want to figure out how to integrate unbound with it so I went ahead and used a container that included unbound. Turns
out I just specify the localhost as the DNS server in pihole.

And then I realized that unbound is supposed to ask questions directly instead of using a commercial provider. So I'll
just use quad9.

## Services

* [ ] Home Assistant
* [ ] Task management, something like kanboard, or maybe gitea
* [x] -Photoprism- Synology Photos because it has AI-powered facial detection
* [ ] grafana for graphing things
* [ ] loki for log aggregation
* [ ] unifi for AP management
* [ ] wireguard for secure remote access

## Desired outcomes

This section keeps track of what I want to do with my homelab:

* [ ] Automatic camera backup from phones with web frontend
* [ ] HVAC usage tracking (will be tough)
* [ ] Malicious ad protection
* [ ] Web content filtering via DNS filtering
* [ ] web content aggregation like with tinytinyrss or similar
* [ ] irc proxy
* [ ] home inventory management
* [ ] home project management

## Tasks/topics

* [ ] Note posting
* [x] Ansible bootstrapping
* [ ] Ansible AWX integration?
* [x] k3s bootstrapping
* [ ] gitops approach
* [ ] configuration encryption
